CRYPTOPANEL
OPERATOR'S MANUAL

OVERVIEW

Cryptopanel is a service for autotesting the load, both special (modular bot, backdoor) and arbitrary.

Main types of tests:
- static scan on dyncheck.com
- dynamic scanning on dyncheck.com
- modular bot autotests
- backdoor autotests
- autotests on antiviruses (AV)

For tests, both a third-party service (dyncheck.com) and our own virtual machine farm are used.


INTERFACE

The main Scan section is divided into folders (Uncrypted, EXP, ZSS, etc.).
As a rule, a separate user works with each folder.
The Uncrypted and Others folders are shared.
Uncrypted files get unencrypted files, from where they are taken by crypters, crypted, and the results are put in their own folder.
An arbitrary load is placed in Others.

When you enter the folder, we see the files.
For users with the appropriate rights, an area is also available to upload their files - "Drop your files here or click to upload".

Further fields:
Name - file name
Size - file size
Uploaded - upload date
Priority - priority - files with the highest priority have the number in the queue for tests first
Check - running tests:
  Static - static scan on dyncheck.com
  Dynamic - dynamic scanning at dyncheck.com
  VM - run autotest on a virtual machine (VM)
Reports - reports
  * static scan reports on dyncheck.com
  * dynamic scan reports on dyncheck.com
  * reports on autotests on VM
Actions
  Download - download file
  Delete - delete file

In the autotest launch window on the VM, we see a list of virtual machines, as well as the Test Type field (at the very bottom).
Test types:
* regular - modular bot autotest
* newbk - backdoor autotest
* AV only - arbitrary load test on AV

Obviously, for the file being tested, you must select the desired type of test.
That is, you must know what exactly you are testing.
If you don't know what you are testing, choose the AV Only test type.
The load will be checked both statically and dynamically.


AUTO TEST REPORTS

When reading reports from autotests, each line of the report reports the status of passing a certain test.
At the beginning of the report, the type of antivirus is usually indicated (if it is on the computer), for example

AV: Bitdefender Total Security

General checks:
- unarchived_static_detect: static check for AB
- proactive_detect: dynamic check for AB
- network_status: network health check on the test computer

Modular bot:
- client_installed: the bot is installed on the computer and fixed. Usually, after that, the bot ID is indicated, like
DESKTOP-4KGAMLP_W10014393.3A98863768251B6D725CF14F86EDE3D5|yas43
- client_knocked: bot knocked to admin panel (knock line shown, like
YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS.MSEC 1 3 online

- client_modules_detect: post-check for AV - antivirus did not demolish the bot after loading and running modules

Backdoor:
- for the backdoor, the log of command execution on the test computer is shown (for today, the Get_Sysinfo command).
- bk_knocked: backdoor knocked to admin panel

Thus, you can find out what happened at each stage of the load execution, and localize the error, if any.

The test is considered to be completely passed if all points of the autotests are passed.
However, this is not a guarantee that the load will be fully operational!
For example, because the number of testing environments is limited, and it is impossible to take into account all cases.
Also, not all load functions can be tested automatically.


PROBLEMS

Autotests are a complex system and sometimes it breaks.
We tried to do self-diagnosis where possible, but not for everything.
In any case, if you see one of these messages:

    Cryptopanel proxy <url> is down, please call system administrator.
    Automatic tests are disabled.

    Regular tests are disabled because Lero proxy <url> is down.
    Please call system administrator.

    New BK tests are disabled because BK proxy <url> is down.
    Please call system administrator.

it means something is not working and you need to call the cavalry.

Sometimes errors are visible in reports:

* VM dont'get file in 10 min: The VM hasn't received the file in 10 minutes, the test task has been cancelled.
This happens when:
- VM is slow
- network failure (no connection)
- software failure of autotest scripts
